Hello and welcome back.
Of course I'm lucky.
And today we're talking about decentralized autonomous organizations or Daos for short.
So if you've been in the world of the theorem kind of like exploring the world of fear you might have
come across this term.
So do not confuse it with the Dow.
The Dow is something we'll discuss in and coming to Turrell probably the next one.
This is that's a specific Dow these general dollars.
And so what are de-centralized antonymous three positions.
Well let's start al-Shehri question by asking another question.
What are organizations these days and here's an example.
If you set aside all of the assets of the organization and all of the actual work they do whether it's
like physical labor like drilling holes in the ground or laying cables or building buildings or you
lower and or it could be creative work design work and so on.
If you put those things aside inside the organization what runs the organization.
That's the question we're asking which is usually a hierarchical structure where you have Director directors
managers more managers more managers than employees and all these people do certain things to make the
company operate.
And the question is what exactly did they do.
What do these people do.
Well these people follow protocols they follow certain procedures in order to make this company operate.
For example if an invoice comes in you need to check these things off if they check off.
Then you need to pay the invoice or you need to raise the purchase order purchase order that you know
you pay the invoice or if you need to invoice somebody else.
How does it work.
That's right.
If she comes in then you raise the purchase order then you pay in with something I haven't done that
in a while.
And so you know like checking things out for example the other example like where if it's the end of
the month pay like check the number of employees check their bank accounts pay pay pay money to their
bank accounts you know that's that's all done by humans.
Most of the time this was for other examples.
There's just financial examples but there's operational examples and lots of things that are done in
a recession that are just procedures that need to be followed.
This of course is of course room for strategy and growth of the organization.
And like other important business decisions what's at the core running of an organization is like like
if there's a car driving or somebody steering it and they're deciding where to go left and right and
which way but the car has to run.
And so there's lots of little parts inside the car that are doing their thing that make the car work.
Same thing in organization.
Any organization that has work that needs to be done there are just procedures and protocols and so
the question is how do these people know the procedures are.
Well they are given the procedures and protocols and very often they're even written out in their contract
exactly what they need to be doing so the contract specifies their protocols or procedures of what type
of work you're doing.
So we take that idea further and we say well if we really put our mind to it then we can create an organization
where people don't have to be doing this.
This can all be done automatically This can all be done by computers.
And that brings in the notion of smart contracts what if you replace all these people who smart contracts
which are which their design is to like have conditions if something happens do this if this happens
that it's on.
So if you ride out all those verticals and then call them because we as we discussed we have a complete
broken language.
You can code and you like logic into it if you code all those things into smart contracts.
All of a sudden you have an organization that's running itself.
And that's what Dows are all about.
I know this might sound quite far fetched but let's have a little look at a couple of examples to make
this concept more relatable.
So we're going to look at two examples so first one is a company or decentralized autonomous organization
that does air ride service like writers.
Right.
So it's not actually right sharing because the cars are driving themselves autonomously.
Even so even a car can be one of us as we've seen from the news lately.
So cars are driving themselves and and the realization is driving itself right is running itself.
So a person is waiting for a car they want to go from their house to their work a car appears person
gets in the car car drives them all the way to work car drops them off at work.
There's another person waiting now they need to go pick up this person or that so they need to go somewhere
else the car or the car and to go pick up another person and the car for itself because of the smart
contracts because of the programming that's invested in this organization.
It can decide for itself that it will pay stubs by the petrol station.
Then there is a smart contract that governs how it interacts with the petrol station at the petrol station
itself can have a smart contract the car checks off on that smart contract the petrol station checks
in this far country or a car is an exchange of petrol for whatever currency the petrol station accepts
and then the car drives on.
So this whole process doesn't need a human involved it even started from the Hasn't doesn't to be a
driver anymore or soon in the near future they will need to be a driver to the whole point of the car
and decide for itself when to get petrol.
The car the computer in the organization or on the blocks and it's all happening on the block and the
computer on the block chain can decide which users are closest and which users it needs to go pick up
and things like that.
So at the end of the day you really don't need much human intervention in running an organisation like
this.
And moreover if this organisation is designed and the bloodshed.
So it's not like a centralized organization it's decentralized so decentralized meaning that it's a
law like it it doesn't belong to all of the servers don't belong to one specific company.
So even if it was followed by several people that started it off but because it's complete decentralized
and these contracts are written out on the block chain.
The key thing here to understand is that even if that company itself like fades or fails or like those
people no longer interested in running it.
The context is it exists.
Smart contracts still exist on the block chain and the organization is going to keep running itself
so it doesn't need that human Drage doesn't need a board of directors it doesn't need managers It doesn't
need employees it just all happens on its own on the block.
That's the concept of darf And so let's have a look at a different example.
So here we've got an organization which provides a computational service from the cloud to its customers.
It could be something like a proprietary machine learning algorithm to predict certain things about
how you know like marketing is going to succeed or fail or things like that.
And so the question is why would it be on the cloud if you read the block chain.
Well good point.
Fair point but let's let's stick with this example.
One of your colleagues example I really liked it so it's it doesn't have necessarily to do with the
Bauchi but will oh will say that the smart contracts and everything that's running this organization
is on the block chain.
Just for some reason it needs to operate from the cloud for whatever reason just for argument sake.
And so what it will do is it will grow this company it will provide the service it will grow and then
it will decide for itself that it's time to open another cloud service like another computing service
and open another cloud account somewhere and or go and find the cloud open accounts and it will expand
on its own.
Q A core key notion here is a organization like that could even expand and grow on its own when its
revenue hits a certain threshold because of the logic coded into the smart contracts.
It understands that it's time to expand it services it could go and expand to other cloud.
And then after a while like it might run out of call services that are pre coded into it so it might
have some logic coded on how to you know go to Google and find more cloud services and expand there
as well.
So it's a very basic example.
And in fact the taluk doesn't even if he gives this example in a different way he calls this and antonymous
agent rather than a decentralized autonomous or ization.
Either way it illustrates the point that we're logic.
We can code things that will run themselves and run on their own and with the power of change we can
make them decentralized meaning that they don't even that logic doesn't have to live in an in a silo
over an organization it can live on the on the on the chain.
And therefore if this organization is profitable and can grow even if something like Even if the people
who started it are no longer interested in it or running it or anything that it can survive on its own
it can just keep running and keep serving the community.
That's the whole notion behind Daos and you should like to learn more I would highly highly highly recommend
this article is a blog written by Vitalii called Daos daks DA's and more on incomplete terminology guide
where he talks in great depth about things like autonomous agents decentralized applications decentralized
organization decentralized autonomous organizations dolls and decentralized autonomous corporations.
And he gives his thoughts on the differentiation between all those.
And what I really like about the article is he's got lots of examples there including that cloud example
that we just went through.
And also it's roots in very simple language.
So it's on the therian blog.
And even though it's quite old 2014 it's still very relevant still a great read.
We'll link this in in their course notes.
And again if you interested in learning more about dolls and how these things work.
Highly recommend checking it out.
It will make a lot of things like that give you a lot of knowledge on on these topics.
And on that thought hoping today senatorial all look forward to seeing you back here next time.
And until then in gybe Lachance.